## Expansion into the coal sack nebula

Location

Spirit of Nysa \| Musca Dark Region PJ-P b6-1

Objective

Deliver Power Generators, Robotics, Structural Regulators and Building
Fabricators

\
Progress

Tier 5/5

Contributors

4,764

Contributions

30,000,194/30,000,000 (100.00%)

End

15 Nov 2020, 7:59pm

\
Status

Finished

The Alliance plans to construct several new outposts in the Coalsack
Nebula. From these, commercial and scientific operations will be
conducted to locate fresh sources of meta-alloys and other potential
sites of interest.\
\
The initiative was prompted by the findings of a planetary survey team
two hundred years ago, which were only discovered after an abandoned
megaship arrived in the Chukchan system.\
\
The Alliance Expeditionary Pact\'s initial plans are to build Betancourt
Base starport in Musca Dark Region PJ-P B6-1 and three further outposts:
Hannu Arena in Musca Dark Region IM-V C2-24,\
Cole Point in Coalsack Sector VU-0 B6-6 and Bering Port in Coalsack
Sector KN-S B4-9.\
\
Shipments of power generators, robotics, structural regulators and
building fabricators are required, and can be delivered to the megaship
Spirit of Nysa in the Musca Dark Region PJ-P b6-1 system. The more
commodities that are supplied, the more outposts will be upgraded to
starports and the greater the range of services they will offer. Should
everything go to plan, they will be in place for the 26th of November
3306.\
\
If successful, Sirius Atmospherics in conjunction with the Sirius
Corporation is offering the top 25% of pilots a fully engineered long
range fast boost, size 5 FSD which will be placed in storage in the
Spirit of Nysa by the 21st of November 3306.
