## Fight for the federation against Azaladshu Free\'s Independence

Location

Fortress Liberty \| Azaladshu

Objective

Hand in Combat Bonds after fighting for Neche Inc in Conflict Zonesâ€‹

\
Progress

Tier 0/8

Contributors

835

Contributions

9,046,105,108/120,000,000,000 (7.54%)

End

08 Jul 2021, 6:00am

\
Status

Finished

Conflict has erupted between the Azaladshu Free and Neche Inc factions,
as multiple Federal systems declare independence.\
\
This was sparked by Azaladshu Free withdrawing from the Federation,
which transformed Azaladshu, LFT 824, LHS 277 and LTT 3919 into
independent systems. The faction strenuously opposes government
monitoring of Federal citizens\' private communications.\
\
Three other Federal factions are on the verge of declaring independence:
Coalition of Uteran, Lp 726-6 Free and Gluscap Labour. All are closely
monitoring the situation in Azaladshu and considering their next move.\
\
Mayor Constanza Noguera, leader of Azaladshu Free, made this statement:\
\
\"We refuse to accept the Federation\'s draconian surveillance laws. I
call upon all supporters of independence to help us fight for our
sovereignty!\"\
\
The declaration brought a swift reaction from President Zachary Hudson:\
\
\"As Azaladshu Free has violated the Federal Accord, I have no option
but to order Neche Inc to engage with these criminals. Thanks to advance
intelligence on the secession, we were able to establish the megaship
Fortress Liberty in the system to help retake it for the Federation.\"\
\
In Congress, Shadow President Felicia Winters faced criticism for
allowing the secession to occur within her sphere of influence. She
reiterated that she does not support rebellion, but does consider the
Proactive Detection Bureau to be unconstitutional.\
\
Neche Inc, in partnership with the Federation, has offered credit
rewards to any pilots willing to help crush this rebellion by handing in
Combat Bonds at the megaship Fortress Liberty in the Azaladshu system.\
\
Should Neche Inc match tiers with Azaladshu Free, it will remain
independent but no other factions will secede from the Federation.\
Should Neche Inc end one or more tiers ahead of Azaladshu Free, it will
return to being a Federal faction and no other factions will secede from
the Federation.\
\
The two factions have set out seven-day campaigns, which will end when
the top tier is reached by either faction or early on Thursday the 8th
of July 3307.
