## Manatee Megaship Initiative

Location

Ocrinox\'s Orbiter \| Munshin

Objective

Deliver Land Enrichment Systems, Animal Monitors, Aquaponic Systems and
Marine Equipment

\
Progress

Tier 5/8

Contributors

2,592

Contributions

11,024,762

End

20 Sep 2018, 3:59pm

\
Status

Finished

The Libertas Cooperative has announced plans to construct a manatee farm
on behalf of food supplier Munshin Manatee Meat. This will take the form
of a megaship, where the creatures will be bred, processed and prepared
for distribution.\
\
Progenitor Selena Conley of the Libertas Cooperative issued the
following statement:\
\
For years, the people of Munshin have been lucky enough to dine on the
finest meat in the galaxy. We are proud to be working in association
with Munshin Manatee Meat to help bring their product to a much wider
consumer base.\
To facilitate construction of the manatee farm, the Libertas Cooperative
has placed an open order for Land Enrichment Systems, Animal Monitors,
Aquaponic Systems and Marine Equipment. It promises to reward pilots who
deliver these commodities to Ocrinox\'s Orbiter in the Munshin system.\
\
The campaign begins on the 13th of September 3304 and will run for one
week. If the final target is met earlier than planned, the campaign will
end immediately.\
\
To be eligible for rewards you must sign up as an active participant
before delivering Land Enrichment Systems, Animal Monitors, Aquaponic
Systems and Marine Equipment to Ocrinox\'s Orbiter in the Munshin
system.\
\
Be aware that faction-state changes, Thargoid Sensor-related
interference and other disruptive events can negatively impact markets
and station services, and could prevent the initiative from running
smoothly.
