## Restoring Order in Kamici

Location

Gaiman Port \| Kamici

Objective

Hand in Bounty Vouchers

\
Progress

Tier 7/8

Contributors

5,611

Contributions

4,294,967,295

End

23 Aug 2018, 4:41pm

\
Status

Finished

Authorities in the Kamici system have reported a distressing rise in the
number of criminals operating in the area. Reports indicate that these
felons are attacking pilots travelling in the system, disrupting trade
and generally causing mayhem.\
\
To counter this threat, Kamici Incorporated has placed a kill order on
all ships on its wanted list, and has promised to reward pilots who
deliver bounty vouchers to Gaiman Port.\
\
The campaign begins on 16th of August 3304 and will run for one week. If
the final target is met earlier than planned, the campaign will end
immediately.\
\
To earn rewards you must sign up as an active participant before handing
in Bounty Vouchers at Gaiman Port in the Kamici system. Only Bounty
Vouchers handed in after signing up will count toward your personal
contribution total\
\
Please note that if you have any crew members, a portion of your bounty
vouchers will be automatically assigned to them. These bounty vouchers
will not count towards your personal contribution total, and your crew
will receive the reward for their vouchers when they are handed in. The
proportion of bounty vouchers assigned to your crew will depend on their
rank.\
\
Be aware that faction-state changes, Thargoid Sensor-related
interference and other disruptive events can negatively impact markets
and station services, and could prevent the initiative from running
smoothly.
