## The Dangerous Games: Rare Smuggling

Location

Gohar Station \| Jaradharre

Objective

Gilya signature weapons

\
Progress

Tier 4/8

Contributors

683

Contributions

0

End

07 Jul 2016, 2:59pm

\
Status

Finished

For much of the past month the galactic community has been captivated by
the Dangerous Games, a semi-official competition organised by some of
the galaxy\'s largest factions to determine which wields the greatest
degree of power and influence.\
\
Three events have taken place so far, with pilots from across the galaxy
fighting fervently to support their chosen group. With the 'Wildcard\'
stage of the competition over, it is time for the main event to begin.\
\
Trinity Avon, a reporter for The Sovereign, explained how the Rise to
Power will work:\
\
"There are six factions taking part: the EG Pilots, the Alliance Elite
Diplomatic Corps, the Border Coalition, GalCop, the Interstellar
Communist Union and the Social Eleu Progressive Party. Over the next
three weeks, there will be a series of campaigns in which each faction
will try to rally as much support as possible. The faction that
dominates its rivals will join the ranks of the galaxy\'s most
powerful."\
\
The first Rise to Power event requires pilots to gather Gilya signature
weapons for their chosen faction and deliver them to Gohar Station in
the Jaradharre system. The faction that accumulates the most Gilya
signature weapons will be declared the winner of the first heat.
Participating pilots are reminded that Gilya signature weapons are
illegal in Jaradharre, and local security forces have been placed on
high alert.\
\
The event begins on the 30th of June 3302 and will run for one week.
