:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       7bca1ccd-649e-438a-ae56-fb8ca34e6440
:END:
#+title: Aden Tanner
#+filetags: :Thargoid:KnowledgeBase:Individual:
* Aden Tanner

#+begin_quote

  "Our species has been banding together to fight the outside since we
  lived in caves. We stand against the lawless, the invades and the
  monsters, and we're proud to do it. But you have to remember one
  thing: nobody in the history of conflict ever saw himself as a
  monster. Everyone believes that they're the hero of their own story.
  If you can't understand that -- if you can't stand in the enemy's
  shoes, even for a second, and ask youself why he thinks he needs to
  kill you -- then you don't know what it means to be a soldier."

  --- Aden Tanner, address to Federal cadets, 3298
#+end_quote

Admiral Aden Tanner is a senior officer in the Federal Navy. He has
served for more than four decades, and in 3303 was given significant
responsibiility in the struggle against the Thargoids, first being
appointed to Chief of Federal Security and later to Chief Military
Liaison for the cross-superpower initiative Aegis. He is widely
respected, even outside of Federal space, for his conscientious and
level-headed approach to conflict.

Born in 3254, Tanner was expected to follow in the footsteps of his
authoritarian father becoming a doctor, but instead enlisted in the
Federal Navy, along with a group of friends, in what he would later
describe as 'a rash act of adolescent rebellion that I have not once
regretted'. Tanner's father died in 3277; the two never resolved their
enstrangement.

Tanner's early naval career was anything but distinguished. Known to his
comrades-in-arms as 'Spoony' for his habit of eating directly from food
packets instead of using plates, he was distinguished more by his
irreverent sense of humour than his competence. Six months in, Tanner
was found to be responsible for a scurrilous newsletter that satirised
several senior officers, including Sergeant Burke Hazell, who was
offended and deeply hurt -- Hazell had taken a personal interest in
Tanner and had encouraged him to persist when the cadet had struggled
with basic training. Tanner's defence that he had been trying to improve
morale was rejected, and although he was allowed to continue his service
he was marked as a potential insubordinate -- a label that would later
return to haunt him.

Tanner's chief instructional officer, Commander Myra Dunstock, warned
him to take military life more seriously. She took Tanner to a refugee
facility -- an experience he would later characterise as showing him
'what the military is there to prevent'. Tanner recognised a last chance
when he saw it, discarded his role as camp comedian, and threw himself
into his training with unprecedented energy.

The decisive incident in Tanner's career was the Autolycus Mutiny
in 3271. At the time, Tanner was serving as Chief Gunnery Officer on
board the FDN Autolycus, a Farragut-class Battlecruiser under the
command of Captain Jaiden Horne. The ship was dispatched to restore
order at Coldharbour Station, which had been occupied by rebels
following a descent into civil disorder.

Captain Horne's orders were to monitor the station and await
reinforcements, but when contact with the station was abruptly lost, he
became convinced an attack was imminent. Surveillance footage later
showed Horne acting in an increasingly erratic fashion: he screamed
orders, slurred his words, and struck an ensign for making a minor
mistake. Seeing a group of civilian ships preparing to leave the
station, Horne ordered Tanner to open fire, convinced they were about to
ram the Autolycus.

Tanner refused to obey the order, claiming it was unlawful and that
Horne was unfit to command. In the time it took a furious Horne to have
Tanner thrown in the brig, the escaping ships had jumpted out of the
system.

At Tanner's court-martial, Horne tried to use his history of
rebelliousness against him, but an explosive series of revelations
followed: the escaping ships had been carrying evacuees, and the
station's apparent silence was in fact due to Horne himself, who had
disabled shipboard communications without telling his crew. Horne, who
it would later emerge had been suffering from laxalamine-induced
psychosis, committed suicide mid-trial by hijacking a fighter and
detonating a grenade inside the cockpit. Tanner was exonerated,
receiving a commendation from President Antonia Madison for his actions.
