:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       3cb0755e-4deb-442b-898b-3f0c6651636e
:END:
#+title: Hengist Duval
#+filetags: :KnowledgeBase:Codex:Empire:Individual:

* Hengist Duval
Hengist Duval (3164-3301) was the 15th ruler of the Empire. He was
[[id:a8068e9d-6706-47da-a19c-2ac943ea8811][assassinated]] on the day of his wedding to [[id:33f63de9-fd79-4790-a1a5-ebd87aaeea2d][Florence Lavigny]].

Hengist reigned during a time of significant change. The Imperial Senate
had begun to grow in power, a process that had begun during the long
sickness of Hengist's father, Hesketh. The development of the frame
shift drive had radically altered life in human-occupied space,
facilitating easy access to goods and interstellar travel, and opening
formerly isolated cultures to outside influence. Old animosities between
the Empire and the Federation finally began to fade.

Hengist appeared to neighter resist nor oppose these many changes,
instead opting to keep the Empire as stable as he could on a day-to-day
basis. This middle-ground approach was deeply unpopular with the
Empire's hard-core traditionalist elements, who saw Hengist as short
sighted, detached and complacent.

In 3238, Hengist wed [[id:014e31e0-a24d-4773-bb73-8300f80de689][Anthea Viola Lampeter]] in an arranged marriage,
planned since his childhood by his late father. Despite a storm of
publicity and celebrations across Imperial space that verged on the
hysterical, there was clearly little genuine affection between the
couple. It was an open secret that the match had been made solely
because of optimal genetic compatibility, and that Hengist could not
refuse without dishonouring his father's memory. As the marriage
crumbled, Hengist spent much of his time with his boyhood friend
Aristide de Lavigny and his wife Florence at their estate on Achenar.

Inflammatory tracts from this period portray the Imperial dynasty and
its noble cohorts as little more than libertines, indulging in
lascivious affairs and lengthy holidays while the Senate did the real
work of government. The most scurrilous rumour was that the Duval
genetic code had been corrupted by centuries of interference, prompting
speculation that a successor of the 'true blood' would have to be found.

The birth of Hengist's heir, Prince Harold, temporarily quietened the
sceptics. A carefully orchestrated father-son photoshoot when Harold was
nine showed the pair riding horses on Achenar, throwing javelins,
watching a Senatorial debate and preparing for a seasonal feast. The
photoshoot was clearly designed to appeal to traditional Imperial
values, and it succeeded. For several years after, Prince Harold was the
darling of the Empire, a symbol of promise and hope. The intense media
focus on the prince's life is now believed to be partly responsible for
his fall from grace, which saw him become a notorious playboy and
philanderer, and which eventually resulted in his exclusion from the
succession on the grounds of mental incapacity.

Towards the end of Hengist's life, it emerged that Arissa Lavigny, the
daughter of Florence Lavigny, was in fact his daughter. Hengist intended
to strengthen her claim to the throne by marrying Florence, thus
legitimising Arissa, but he was assassinated before this could take
place.

The most enduring criticism of Emperor Hengist is that he failed to plan
adequately for the future; certainly, the matter of the succession
created tensions that endure to this day.

