:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       75daea85-5e9f-4f6f-a102-1a5edea0283c
:END:
#+title: Denton Patreus
#+filetags: :Empire:Federation:Alliance:Codex:KnowledgeBase:Individual:

* Denton Patreus

#+begin_quote

  "What disgusts me? That's a perceptive question. By asking it, you
  reveal that you consider me a man of taste. If you had asked me what I
  hated, I'm not sure I could have hidden my disappointment at such a
  banal question. But disgust? That deserves an answer."

  "It is jealousy that most disgusts me. It's such a petty,
  self-defeating emotion. I see it every day. Most men look at me and
  think, "I want what he has." Perhaps one in a thousand thinks, "How
  can I achieve what he achieved?" He's not jealous -- he's motivated.
  Who knows, we might work together one day. But most men are not like
  that. They have the desire, but not the initiative. It's like a dog
  watching you eat and wishing he was a human."

  "And that's the tragic thing about jealous people. They think they
  hate me, but really they hate themselves. Because deep in their hearts
  they know they're too lazy to fight for their dreams."

  --- Denton Patreus, A Fireside Chat with Srena, 3302
#+end_quote

Denton Patreus is a powerful Imperial Senator and the Admiral of the
Imperial Fleet. He is a controversial figure, admired by many Imperials
for his wealth and influence, but deeply unpopular in other quarters for
his uncomrpomising approach to debtors. He is also noted for commanding
one of the strongest private military fleets in colonised space.

Patreus has repeatedly issued loans to struggling governments via shell
companies, only to later hike up the interest rates. When the government
defaults on the loan (a common occurence), Patreus moves in to
foreclose. Since few governments are able to match the power of his
private fleet, this is usually a one-sided affair, although some
governments have appealed for and received the aid of independent
pilots. This strategy has brought numerous systems under the control of
Patreus's various corporations.

If Patreus has any long-term goals beyond increasing his personal power
and holding the line against the Alliance and the Federation, they are
not publicly known. Politically, he has always played the part of the
loyal Imperial; he accepts the need for progress, and has devoted
considerable attention to eradicating Emperor's Dawn, an insurgent
organisation responsible for the assassination of Emperor Hengist Duval.
His support for the Empire has been well rewarded, and as Admiral of the
Fleet he enjoys and enviable level of prestige.

But even this may not be enough, and many have speculated that Patreus
harbours a desire to become Emperor. During the period of uncertainty
that followed the death of Hengist Duval, Patreus suggested that the
title of Emperor be assigned on the basis of public support rather than
lineal descent -- a statement that was widely interpreted as a bid for
the throne. When the succession passed to Arissa Lavigny-Duval by vote
of the Senate, Patreus did not contest it.

The question of who should succeed Arissa Lavigny-Duval is now a
pertinent one. Imperial commentators have suggested that Patreus' highly
visible courtship of Princess Aisling Duval may be part of a long-term
strategy as well as a piece of savvy media manipulation. Arissa
Lavigny-Duval has no children, whereas a child born to a Patreus-Duval
partnership could be an extremely strong contender for the throne.
