:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       b4892958-b513-46dc-b74e-26887b53f678
:END:
#+title: Yuri Grom
#+filetags: :Empire:Alliance:KnowledgeBase:Codex:Individual:

* Yuri Grom

#+begin_quote

  "We have portraits of all the other leaders to accompany the articles
  -- only Grom remains. I have no idea what to expect. The man is more
  than half myth. Marcus and I sit in the lobby drinking tea that tastes
  vaguely of gunpowder and spices. The word comes through: Grom does not
  want to be photographed on the mocked-up throne we had in mind, He
  will stand in front of the station viewport, with EG Prime hanging in
  space behind him."

  "The cameras are ready. They have been ready for an hour. Without
  warning, Grom strides in. The makeup crew approach but he waves them
  away. He glances at their creams and paints. Then he's advancing on
  me, angry. "I do not hide these," he says, gesturing to the medals on
  his chest, "so why should I hide these?" He points to his scarred
  face."

  "I splutter something about not meaning to offend him, but he gives me
  a slap on the back that jostles my vertebrae, and lets out a laugh
  that could crack glass. I have never felt more out of my depth in my
  life."

  --- Carmine Renarde, GalNet News Agency photographer
#+end_quote

Yuri Grom is the leader of the EG Pilots, an independent faction based
in the Euryale system.

Grom was originally a Federal Admiral, but he retired from the
Federation on ideological grounds. He has never publicly discussed the
circumstances of his resignation, but it is believed he was disgusted by
the corruption he discovered in the Federation.

His retirement came as a shock to the senior members of Federal command,
who had expected him to become an instructor. A number of Federal pilots
who were loyal to Grom resigned at the same time, in order to continue
serving under him. The Federation has never released a complete account
of this episode, possibly in order to avoid embarrassment.

His appetite for expansion notwithstanding, Grom inspires great loyalty
in his followers, and even among those he conquers -- indeed, such
people often prefer Grom's rulership to the one they originally had, no
doubt due to Grom's well-attested talent for negotiation, insistence
upon honourable combat and fair treatment of captives. He is even
rumoured to have persuaded entire settlements to surrender without a
single shot being fired.

While Grom is admired by his own people, and has earned the respect of
the Empire and the Alliance, the Federation views him as a menace.
President Zachary Hudson reported to have referred to Grom as "a cancer
that Halsey foolishly allowed to spread when she could have cut it out".

Hudson's views are not shared by the wider Federal military, and
although cadets have been forbidden to listen to Grom's broadcasts or
read his work, small groups of adherents are believed to exist,
conducting private meetings in their barracks and even pledging support
for Grom. Hudson has dismissed such reports as "obvious Gromski
propaganda designed to set us at one another's throats."

