:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       34f3cfdd-0536-40a9-8732-13bf3a5e4a70
:END:
#+title: Arissa Lavigny-Duval
#+filetags: :Empire:KnowledgeBase:Codex:Individual:

* Arissa Lavigny-Duval

#+begin_quote

  "I am a daughter not just of the Emperor, but of the Empire, and I
  look upon our traditions and achievements with pride. I hold, as my
  forefathers did, that to be born Imperial is to receive the blessing
  of the Universe. That is the true meaning of the ceremonial wine
  tipped upon our new-born heads."

  "Does this pride in our heritage make me old fashioned? Some would say
  so. I know that there are those in my family who cannot bear the
  burden of rank and privilege without a chronic sting of guilt, but I
  ask that you look charitably upon those so ailing, as I do. After all,
  rebellion is the prerogative of adolescence."

  "I ask that you reserve your anger for a worthier target -- for those
  who acknowledge our traditions in public, but privately serve only
  their own corrupt interests; for those who exploit their ancestors'
  sacrifices while holding our military in contempt; for all the petty,
  venal, spineless parasites in our very midst."

  "I have sat with many such parasites, and for form's sake I have
  masked my contempt. But that mask has served its purpose, and now I
  cast it aside. To the worms nesting so complacently in the heart of my
  beloved Empire, I say this: we see you, and we are coming for you."

  --- Arissa Lavigny-Duval, private speech given at her post-coronation
  dinner
#+end_quote

Arissa Lavigny-Duval is the reigning Emperor, having been appointed to
the position by the Imperial Senate, and a direct descendant of the
first Emperor, Henson Duval. Her father was originally thought to be the
late Prince Aristide de Lavigny, but Arissa's claim to be the
illegitimate daughter of Emperor Hengist Duval has since been ratified
by DNA testing.

Arissa distinguished herself as a serving senator early in life. Unlike
other senators who took their patrons' support for granted or left the
work of intercession to a delegated representative, Arissa made a point
of visiting and speaking directly with her patrons. Foremost amongst
their concerns was how little scope for mobility the Empire offered. In
theory it was possible to rise in rank, but in reality, power was
hoarded and loyal service went unrewarded.

To her mother's horror, Arissa proceeded to go undercover as a slave in
the Lagenay household on Achenar, talking to the staff and listening in
on meetings. What she learned would change her view of the Empire
forever. The rules could be broken with impunity, so long as the proper
bribes were paid. A senator's favour could be secured, a corporation's
accounts could be doctored and an atrocity could be covered up, for the
right price. On paper it might be a patronage system, but it operated as
a de facto plutocracy.

Arissa's experience as a slave also cemented her own view of Imperial
slavery -- namely that it was no worse than indentured servitude, and
downright luxurious compared to what the Federation's lowest paid
workers had to endure. Non-Imperial commentators responded by pointing
out that slaves in noble households on Achenar could hardly be held up
as typical examples of slavery, and that Arissa might have learned more
had she spent her time in a Mastopolos mining facility.

Arissa has made no secret of her determination to restore the rule of
law within the Empire. She means to purge it of corruption, and has
received widespread public support for this cause. Unlike her niece,
Aisling Duval, she sees the Empire's systems as inherently worthy, if
impeded by long-term neglect. They need to be cleansed, not torn and
rebuilt as per Aisling's wishes.

As the first woman to serve as Emperor, Arissa is a controversial figure
to many regardless of her personal political stance. Many hard-core
traditionalists within the Empire have vowed to depose her and replace
her with a ruler more to their liking.

