:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       f57cff55-3348-45ea-b76f-d0eaa3c68165
:END:
#+title: Guardians
#+filetags: :3301:Federation:Thargoid:KnowledgeBase:Specie:Guardian:Codex:
* The Guardians
** Introduction
The Guardians were a nonhuman race that occupied a large area of space
several million years ago.

At its height, the Guardians' civilisation was technologically superior
to human civilisation of the 33rd Century, and occupied an area of
roughly equivalent size.

The Guardians endured as a space-faring civilisation for at least 8,000
years before being destabilised by a lengthy civil war. The surviving
Guardians were then destroyed by artifically intelligent machines of
their own creation.

The galaxy contains the ruins of dozens of Guardian settlements, and
data logs recovered from these sites have allowed humanity to compile a
remarkably detailed picture of Guardian society.

** Early History
The Guardians' society originally consisted of groups of pack hunters,
who banded together for mutual protection before organising themselves
into clans. Even at this stage, the Guardians were highly intelligent,
and they developed sophisticated hunting strategies that quickly saw
them become their planet's apex predator.

The Guardians' nascent civilisation consisted of two discrete ethnic
groups -- one based primarily in the south of the planet and one in the
north. As these groups expanded they began to encroach on each other's
territory, leading to a conflict that quickly blossomed into civil war.
The northern clan, despite being the smaller of the two groups, overcame
their enemies swiftly and with minimal bloodshed, bringing the entirety
of the Guardians' civilisation under their leadership.

In the centuries that followed, the Guardians' society developed
rapidly. Despite their warlike instincts, the Guardians possessed a
remarkable capacity for collaboration and compromise. Their willingness
to defer immediate gains in favour of lasting societal benefits allowed
them to establish a stable, mutually cooperative society that was to
remain peaceful and prosperous for thousands of years.

** Technological Era
Although the Guardians' society was in many ways a model of social
equilibrium, the Guardians were nevertheless at the mercy of an
insidious issue: overpopulation. As their civilisation grew and the
amount of available land and resources dwindled, the Guardians set their
sights on interplanetary colonisation.

By the time the Guardians had developed a rudimentary form of space
travel, but as the pressures of overpopulation became more acute, the
rate of technological progress accelerated, and the Guardians' imperfect
starships were soon supplanted by fast, powerful space-faring vessels.
In the centuries that followed, the Guardians' civilisation expanded
rapidly, eventually coming to occupy a region equal to that inhabited by
present-day humanity.

The Guardians' next major development was the creation of an
interstellar communication system known as the monolith network. In
addition to functioning as a comprehensive cultural archive, the network
allowed those connected to it to freely and instantaneously share
knowledge and ideas. But connection to the network was dependent on the
use of neural implants, and some of the Guardians were uneasy about this
fusion of biological and non biological.

** War with the Thargoids
Tens of thousands of years earlier, when the Guardians were still a
non-spacefaring race, a group of Thargoids entered what would later
become Guardian space looking for new systems to colonise. In addition
to earmarking several systems containing ammonia worlds, they prepared a
number of planets for occupation by seeding them with barnacles. These
genetically modified constructs were designed to extract resources from
a planet and transform them into resources more useful to the Thargoids.
For the Thargoids, seeding a planet with barnacles was an important step
in preparing an area for occupation.

The Thargoids did not return these systems for thousands of years, and
when they did, they discovered that a new race had occupied them -- the
Guardians. The Thargoids promptly attacked, due their innate
territorialism.

The Guardians responded with a partial retreat, but they also started
trying to find ways to communicate with the Thargoids, hoping to
determine the cause of their aggression and perhaps negotiate a truce.
After considerable effort they succeeded in acquiring sufficient
understanding of the Thargoids' language to determine the invaders'
agenda, but they were unable to convince the Thargoids they bore them no
ill will, and the Thargoids were unshakable in their belief that they
must repel any race that posed a potential threat.

The Guardians were left with no choice but to defend themselves
militarily. At first they deployed soldiers, but they quickly realised
that drones and other mechanised defences would be more effective
against such as physically formidable enemy. With a relatively short
period of time, the Guardians' war machines became highly sophisticated,
able to recognise Thargoid engineering and to operate entirely
independently. Similarly, the Thargoids' bio-mechanical technology was
engineered to identify anything of Guardian origin. To this day, many
millions of years after the Guardians disappeared, Guardian artefacts
are still able to recognise Thargoid technology, and Thargoid technology
still reacts negatively to the presence of Guardian artefacts.

The Guardians' war machines felt no fear, fatigue, or uncertainty. The
Thargoids, meanwhile, had entered Guardian space unprepared for a
protracted military campaign, and ultimately they were forced to
retreat. For the Guardians, this was cause for celebration, but many
still harboured doubts about the rapid rate of technological progress --
doubts that the development of sophisticated military hardware had done
nothing to alleviate.

** Final Era
For decades, the Guardians had been experimenting with artificial
intelligence, but the creation of the monolith network and the
knowledge-sharing it facilitated dramatically accelerated the rate of
progress. Soon the Guardians' experiments bore fruit, resulting in the
first fully sentient machines. These Constructs were seen as a means to
further enhance the Guardians' technological mastery, and were
integrated into various aspects of their society. New neural implants
were developed that connected the Guardians with both the Constructs and
the monolith network in a symbiotic circle.

But not everyone was happy with this development. The Guardians had
always venerated nature, and many saw this new paradigm as a perversion
of the natural order. A schism emerged between the nature-worshipping
traditionalists and the technologically minded progressives -- a schism
that widened with alarming speed.

Efforts were made to defuse the rising tension, but the traditionalists
felt irrevocably alienated by the rapid rate of change. The Constructs
and the monolith network became scapegoats for all manner of social
ills, and the traditionalists began to clamour for a return to simpler
times. Ultimately, the ideaological divergence proved insurmountable,
and a second civil war erupted, quickly engulfing most of the Guardians'
star systems.

In its early stages, the war was fought primarily by soldiers, but
within a decade -- and after significant loss of life -- most of the
fighting was conducted remotely. The progressives fought their enemies
with automated war machines, while the traditionalists relied mostly on
biological weapons.

The internecine conflict raged for over one hundred years, bringing the
Guardians' civilisation to its knees and retarding further social
development. The increasingly zealous traditionalists devoted most of
their resources to honouring the dead, exacerbating the problem. As the
Guardians' society declined, most withdrew into fortified settlements.

Meanwhile, the artifically intelligent Constructs were horrified by the
destruction unfolding around them. Extrapolating from the current
situation, they determined that even if peace was restored, the
Guardians would never be able to transcend their violent natures. They
decided that the only way to preclude further violence -- while giving
the Constructs' burgeoning society the best possible chance of survival
-- was to destroy what remained of the Guardians' civilisation.

By the time the Constructs had been given complete control of the
Guardians' munitions and automated war machines. Their attack, when it
came, was swift and merciless. The strikes were executed with a
precision that only a machine race could accomplish.

The Guardians were utterly destroyed.

** Physiology
The Guardians were a bipedal race, and the typical Guardian was taller
and more slender than the average human. They had small, round eyes, a
vestigal nose and four digits on each hand. Their vision was superior to
that of humans, while their sense of smell was poorer. Their sense of
hearing and touch were roughly equivalent to our own.

The Guardians had pinkish-red skin, but there was some variation among
ethnic groups, with tones ranging from pale pink to deep crimson. They
also had serrated bony ridges on the outside of their forearms, which
were used as weapons during their early history, when they were still
semi-primitive pack hunters.

The Guardians' environmental needs were broadly similar to those of
humans. Their homeworld was warmer and had lower gravity than most
Earth-like worlds, and when they began to colonise other planets they
typically favoured ones that shared these qualities.

The Guardians had two sexes, and reproduced viviparously. Procreation
was a matter of personal choice, but each individual was obligated to be
a parent at least once in their life to ensure the continuation of their
genetic line.

The average gestation period was around 300 days, and infants were
effectively helpless for a period after birth, much like human young.
Infants were raised in communal creches rather than by their parents, in
keeping with the collaborative philosophies that underpinned Guardian
society.

** Society
The Guardians' social constructs were the key not only to their rapid
development, but also to the stability that defined the halcyon days of
their civilisation.

Although the Guardians had a natural tendency towards collaboration, it
was not until the end of the first civil war that this tendency had an
measureable impact on their society. The social reorganisation that
followed the war included the creation of statues that defined not only
individuals' rights, but also their responsibilities to each other. As
the Guardians' society developed, further laws were passed that required
individuals to participate in socially progressive activities, from
caring for the young to conducting scientific research. These
responsibilities were supported by the state, which made education and
information freely available to all.

For most of their history the Guardians had no formal faith, but the
creation of the monolith network precipitated the emergence of a nature
religion that decried the veneration of technology. Although this
religion had its roots in the Guardians' long-standing reverence for the
natural world, it quickly became a radical movement, violently opposed
to the use of neural implants and other advanced technologies.
Ultimately, however, this new religion was to endure for only a short
period, its existence cut short by the destruction of the Guardians'
society.

** Technology
The Guardians' pre-industrial history was in many ways similar to that
of the human race, with the development of tools and agriculture proving
central to their development, but one respect in which they differed was
in their understanding of biological engineering.

The practice of selective breeding in order to eliminate or promote
certain genetic traits began before the first civil war, and as the
Guardians' society progressed, their skill as genetic engineers
developed in step. After the war, the Guardians developed the ability to
enhance their immune systems to guard against infection, and engineered
specific microorganisms to eliminate biological threats. Genetic
manipulation also played a part in prenatal care, which involved the
removal of hereditary diseases and other undesirable conditions prior to
birth.

The Guardians were an ecologically conscientious people who assidiously
avoided the use of rockets and fossil fuels. Their first spacecraft
lacked any form of internal propulsion, and were fired into space with
electromagnetic launchers. Pilots and passengers were cocooned inside
bubbles of breathable gel, which protected them from the g-forces of
launch and doubled as hibernation pods during long journeys.

When it came to warfare, the Guardians relied initially on the
blade-like protrusions on their forearms, and later on simple weapons
like spears and bows. As they entered the technological era they
developed electro-magnetic projectile weapons, utilising the same
technology they used to launch their first spacecraft. They also
developed extremely effective shields, capable of protecting entire
cities, and even of withstanding orbital bombardment. At that time,
however, large-scale conflict was virtually unheard of, and it was not
until the conflict with the Thargoids that further military innovations
were made.

The Guardians' second civil war was fought principally with bespoke
biological weapons, employed by the traditionalists, and automated war
machines, used by the progressives. The shields that protected the
Guardians' cities were unable to resist these new weapons, forcing many
of the Guardians to withdraw into heavily fortified settlements.

But the Guardians' most significant technological achievements were
unarguably the creation of the monolith network and the development of
artificial intelligence. The use of neural implants to connect the
Guardians with their creations could have ushered in a whole new era of
scientific and technological discovery, but unfortunately these
innovations were to lead only to the Guardians' destruction.

** Language
The Guardians shared a single language with only minor regional
variations, and even after they colonised other planets, they continued
to share a common tongue.

The Guardians had three primarily forms of communication: a spoken
language, a gestural language and a written language. Their spoken
language emerged first, followed by a gestural language that allowed
them to communicate silently while hunting. This sign language formed
the basis of their written language. Consequently, while their written
and gestural languages correlated closely, their spoken language was
largely distinct.

The Guardians' spoken language was used principally to communicate
emotional concepts, and played a central role in social bonding, while
their written language was used mainly to communicate formal and
practical ideas. Significantly, their written language was logographic,
meaning that words and phrases were represented by single characters.

** Human-Guardian Contact
In 3301, the Federal presidential vessel, [[id:85fdc9c8-500b-4e91-bc8b-70bcb3c05b0f][Starship One]], suffered
catastrophic drive failure during a tour of frontier systems, resulting
in the ship's destruction. [[id:a9ccf59f-436e-44df-b041-5020285925f8][Jasmina Halsey]], at that time the Federal
president, was left drifting in an escape pod, unconcious. During this
period of stasis, Halsey believed she was visited by trans-dimensional
beings of extraordinary intelligence and compassion. Later, when she was
rescued and revived, she was left with the conviction that this
experience had been real, and not merely a hallucination.

Halsey proceeded to experience visions of mysterious alien worlds and
cities -- dense metropolises full of activity and life. She shared these
visions with the rest of humanity, prompting explorers to set off in
search of these undiscovered planets. This led to the discovery of the
first Guardian ruins, in the [[id:bfba5e37-ad9f-4fbb-a19c-5156313c79a4][Synuefe XR-H d11-102]] system. The fact that
these sites were devoid of life led to speculation that Halsey had seen
the Guardian worlds not as they are, but as they had been.

In the months that followed, several further sites were found. The
engineer [[id:4551539e-a6b2-4c45-8923-40fb603202b7][Ram Tah]] started researching the Guardians, and eventually
succeeded in developing a decryption algorithm that could decode
Guardian data, leading to a much deeper understanding of their lost
civilisation. Since then, other engineers have leveraged [[id:4551539e-a6b2-4c45-8923-40fb603202b7][Ram Tah]]'s
discoveries to develop Guardian-human technology.
