:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       da80c263-3c2d-43dd-ab3f-1fbf40490f74
:END:
#+title: Edmund Mahon
#+filetags: :Federation:Alliance:KnowledgeBase:Codex:Individual:

* [[id:da80c263-3c2d-43dd-ab3f-1fbf40490f74][Edmund Mahon]]

#+begin_quote

  "Naturally we faced criticism over the Lugh conflict. Many people
  thought we should have been in there guns blazing. On the one hand you
  have a system that wants to be independent, and on the other you have
  the oppressive Federation telling them 'no'. The authorities in Lugh
  put out a call for aid. And what did the Alliance do? We turned them
  down. That would never happen on the holos, would it? I would've been
  at the head of the Alliance fleet, taking down the Fed cap ship with a
  well-aimed torpedo up the tailpipe!"

  "But life isn't like the holos. You need political and legal clarity.
  When Lugh asked for our help, who exactly was doing the asking? The
  people? Alright then, which people? Who counted their votes, and how
  was the process monitored? The Alliance is rigorous, you see. You
  can't join a voluntary association of free systems unless you can
  offer demonstrable proof of your freedom to choose, just as you can't
  enter into a contract without being of sound mind, acting without
  coercion."

  --- [[id:da80c263-3c2d-43dd-ab3f-1fbf40490f74][Edmund Mahon]], responding to a question from Jessica Braganza, one
  of a party of schoolchildren visiting the Prime Minister's residence
#+end_quote

Edmund Mahon is the current [[id:7361b97b-004a-4243-920c-d0e8d93479b0][Prime Minister]] of the Alliance.

The product of a corn-farming family based on Birmingham in the Diso
system, Mahon was hard-working and shrewd from an early age, with a
particular talent for negotiation -- nobody seemed able to beat his crop
prices down, and he always managed to shave something off the asking
price of any tools or machinery the family needed. In the first book of
his autobiography, The Shadow of Silo Seven, he attributes this talent
to preparatory research, claiming that he always found out as much as he
could about the people he would be dealing with before meeting them.

At 18, Mahon won a Federal scholarship to study law. Frustrated with
what he saw as the imbalance of power between corporations and their
employees, Mahon intended to specialise in cases of coroporate
exploitation. He quickly found, however, that the legal profession was
not to his liking -- "awash with duplicity, doubletalk and corruption"
was his assessment -- and he switched track to political science.

Two years into his course, and following an increasingly vocal series of
broadcasts on a personal video channel in which he argued in favour of
the newly formed Alliance, Mahon's scholarship funds were abruptly cut
off. He had unknownly violated a clause that required him to refrain
from public criticism of the Federal government.

Unwilling to return to his family without having made something of
himself, Mahon had no choice but to look for work while continuing to
study. The bar in which he had spent so many hours as a student was
happy to take him on as a bartender, and he proved so competent that
after his graduation he took on the role of manager. Mahon claims it was
it was this experience, rather than any innate idealism, that set him on
the path to becoming a career politician. As he puts it: "A good
bartender has to be able to listen, and to give equal respect to
everyone while demanding that others do the same. He has to be able to
distinguish what is meant from what is said, encourage free exchange of
views while tactfully enforcing the rules, and, when necessary, break up
fights."

Mahon's break into politics came when his friends encouraged him to run
for city office against the favoured corporate candidate, Jensen Crane.
The Mahon campaign began as a token protest, since Crane was expected to
win by a comfortable majority. Mahon eviscerated Crane in the live
debates, however, winning over the audience with a combination of wry
humour and an empathetic awareness of local concerns that Crane could
not hope to match, living as he did in a high-altitude apartment
complex.

Crane was elected by a narrow margin, but Mahon's supporters begged him
to continue in politics. So it was at the age of just 27, Mahon found
himself working alongside elder statesperson Iren Mendel, helping with
the campaign to break the Diso system away from the Federation and make
it a part of the Alliance.

By the time Diso joined the Alliance in 3286, Mahon was a seasoned
parliamentarian. He served as a planetary representative several times
before making his bid for the premiership.

