:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       05ab22a7-9952-49a3-bdc0-45094cdaff6a
:END:
#+title: Pranav Antal
#+filetags: :KnowledgeBase:Codex:Individual:
Leader of the [[id:ff7259da-5b38-486b-8a3b-61ba9adca854][Utopia movement]]

* [[id:05ab22a7-9952-49a3-bdc0-45094cdaff6a][Pranav Antal]]

#+begin_quote

  "If my ancestors could see me today, would they approve of what I've
  done? I doubt it. Enlightenment is supposed to be hard work. In theory
  it's accessible to anyone, but in practice only those who devote years
  of their life to meditation can hope to accomplish anything. To do
  what we have done -- to democratise the spirit through technology --
  would look to my forebears like unforgivable laziness."

  "But all things must happen in their appointed time. We now stand on
  the verge of overcoming the great obstacle of human progress there has
  ever been -- all forms of conflict result from this detachment. But
  our technology allows us to truly see the world through others' eyes.
  We can finally achieve what the mystics and sages have spent centuries
  striving for, and break down the fortress of the individual ego."

  --- [[id:05ab22a7-9952-49a3-bdc0-45094cdaff6a][Pranav Antal]]
#+end_quote

[[id:05ab22a7-9952-49a3-bdc0-45094cdaff6a][Pranav Antal]] is the leader of the Utopia movement, within which he is
referred to by the honorific 'Simguru'. Utopia is a visionary project
with a goal to advance humanity scientifically, morally and spiritually
via the application of technology, with a particular focus on
simulations or 'sims'- the digitised thoughts, emotions and perceptions
of another.

Pranav inherited leadership of Utopia from his father, Rishi Antal.
Rishi was the founder of Utopia and designer of the Sim-Archive, a
facility that allows the living to experience the digitised memories of
the deceased. Although at present it is only possibly to experience
these memories passively, Pranav has mentioned the possibility of
incorporating them into a simulated version of the individual or
'data-ghost' that could then be interacted with, thereby allowing
individuals to endure beyond death.

In his youth, Pranav was expected to undertake a range of physical
chores despite the technological and material wealth available to his
family, and has often spoken of digging vegetables out of the ground and
rebuilding collapsed cultivation tunnels after a storm. At the time he
begrudged these tasks, but having since accessed his deceased father's
memories, he now appreciates that the work gave him an understanding of
how the disadvantaged experience life, as well as reminding him that
humanity is depenent upon the material world, and must not hold it in
contempt.

Pranav is generally considered more commercially minded than his ascetic
father, prompting his critics to condemn him as a plutocrat with only a
superficial interest in Utopia's ideals. His supporters, by contrast,
paint him as combining the wisdom of his father with a shrewd commercial
nous. Regardless, both sides agree that Utopia has undergone significant
change under Pranav's leadership.

Pranav's prevalent concern, apart from continuing to expand Utopia, is
the Acheron Interface. His claim is that this project will allow users
to translate their conciousness directly into data, thereby surpassing
the limitations of the physical self. Some commentators have expressed
wariness, claiming the project steers unacceptably close to the
development of artificial intelligence, which is prohibited throughout
the galaxy. But Pranav's standpoint is that a system that translates
intelligence into a new form, like the Acheron Interface, is not
artificial intelligence, since the human being remains at the core of
the process.

