:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       7aae0550-b8ba-42cf-b52b-e7040461c96f
:END:
#+title: Archon Delaine
#+filetags: :Codex:KnowledgeBase:Individual:

* Archon Delaine

#+begin_quote

  "I tell you, Delaine is the most trustworthy cuss you could ever work
  with. Why? Because he always makes good on his threats. Anyone else
  tells you they're going to cut off your index fingers and hammer them
  to your sinuses with your own servered foot, you know it's just a
  bluster. But if Delaine tells you that, you know he'll do exactly what
  he says, to the letter. He wants people to be afraid of him, and that
  means he keeps his promises. You gotta respect that."

  --- Mantal Hoeck, arms trader
#+end_quote

Archon Delaine is the head of the Kumo Crew, a powerful criminal
syndicate. He refers to himself as the Pirate King, a title not
recognised by any government.

Delaine's early life is not documented, and there are competing legends
of his origins. Some believe he grew up in a drug den on one of the
frontier worlds, where he learned to fight. Other stories have him
working as a bouncer in the brothel where he was born, or training as a
grease monkey at an orbital shipyard that hosted clandestine arena
fights after hours. What is certain is that Delaine challenged -- and
slaughtered -- the reigning Pirate Lord of the Kumo Crew when he was
only 15.

The title of Pirate Lord is only transferred on the death of the
incumbent, either to a nominated successor or to the victor of a ritual
challenge. According to tradition, the Pirate Lord must honour any
challenge to his leadership regardless of who issues it, although the
choice of weapons is left to him. In Delaine's case, Pirate Lord Crabbe
opted for a bare-hands contest -- a highly unusual choice. It has been
suggested that Crabbe saw Delaine as a weak target due to his albinism,
unworthy of a Pirate Lord's personal attention. It is possible that
Crabbe intended to give Delaine a beating rather than kill him outright.
If so, it was a fatal act of mercy.

Footage of the fight, shot by onlookers, shows Delaine deftly evading
Crabbe's heavy blows, allowing the larger man to tire himself out,
before delievering a sudden job to Crabbe's eye. Delaine then battered
Crabbe into submission, continuing to pummel the body until it was
unrecognisable.

The Kumo Crew immediately split, dividing itself into those who saw
Delaine as a legitimate leader and those who refused to follow an
unproven youth. The rift was soon closed, however, as Delaine proved
himself as capable a leader as he was a fighter. It became clear that
Delaine intended to establish not only his own reputation, but that of
the Crew.

From then on, Delaine crushed any dissent with the same uncompromising
brutality he had shown to Crabbe. He took a zero-tolerance approach to
the petty squabbles that had previously paralysed the Kumo Crew, and in
so doing turned what had been an anarchic band of opportunists into a
lethally effective raiding force.

United in purpose and more organised than ever before, the Kumo Crew
quickly became the terror of the Pegasi sector, absorbing lesser pirate
gangs, raiding civilian stations with impunity and taking over corporate
facilities. In Delaine's early years of leadership, many rival pirate
lords demanded the right to one-on-one combat, each of them convinced
that they would be the one to strike him down and take over his enviable
criminal empire. Delaine met each challenger in turn, agreed to their
choice of weapons, and promptly dispatched them. After the death of
Pirate Lord Horvath, who Delaine strangled with his own razor whip,
there were no further challenges.

Delaine and his Kumo Crew ruled by fear, but they operate according to
strict rules. If a settlement in Kumo territory has paid its tribute,
any Kumo pirate foolish enough to raid it risks being stripped of his
rank, his crew, his possessions, his skin and his life, according to the
severity of the offence. These are the infamous 'five strippings'
instigated by Delaine as a standard punishment across Kumo territory.

