:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       a9ccf59f-436e-44df-b041-5020285925f8
:END:
#+title: Jasmina Halsey
#+filetags: :3300:Empire:Federation:Alliance:KnowledgeBase:Codex:Individual:

Halsey was elected [[id:bb90a162-e588-4467-bc4b-d8a33ecef686][President of the Federation]] in 3300 and served
until June 2, 3301, when she lost a vote of no-confidence that was
called after she went missing in the [[id:85fdc9c8-500b-4e91-bc8b-70bcb3c05b0f][Starship One]] disaster.

* Jasmina Halsey

#+begin_quote

  "I know what they're saying. They're picking my story to pieces. Some
  of the criticism is rational -- the lack of corroborative evidence,
  for example. I don't mind that. I'm telling the truth, after all, and
  a rational approach can't hurt the truth. But when they say that what
  I experienced is an archetypal conversion story, and that that makes
  it suspect? If what I saw reminds people of historical accounts,
  doesn't that say something about those experiences?

  --- Jasmina Halsey, Federal Times interview, 3302
#+end_quote

Jasmina Halsey, a former politician, served as president of the
Federation from 3300 to 3301. She now works as a peace activist and
close advisor to Alliance Prime Minister Edmund Mahon.

Halsey claims the profound transformation of her views is the result of
a visionary experience in which she communicated with benign nonhuman
life forms -- an episode that allegedly occurred in 3301 following the
destruction of her vessel, Starship One.

Prior to the disappearance of Starship One, Halsey's presidency was
unpopular among Federal citizens. Taxes had been raised too many times,
and her military interventions were seen as heavy handed. A campaign to
ban the narcotic onionhead went awry when the crops were firebombed,
resulting in collateral damage. During the Lugh rebellion, Halsey gave
the order to fire on a civilian convoy in the belief that a rebel leader
was on one of the vessels. Many senior commanders in the Federal Navy
lost faith in Halsey and transferred their loyalty to then-Shadow
President Zachary Hudson.

Hudson called for a vote of no confidence in Halsey's government shortly
after Starship One went missing and achieved an overwhelming victory.
Though Halsey was later found alive, drifiting in an escape pod,
suggestions that she might be reinstated as President gained little
support.

Perhaps surprisingly, Halsey's account of her experiences has received a
large degree of acceptance among the galactic community, but even those
who accept her description of an encounter with nonhuman entities
suspect there is more to the story than has been made public. Sceptics
hold that the event presents too many unanswered questions, such as
precisely what happened to Starship One, as well as offering Halsey a
suspiciously convenient way out of her failing presidential career.

The most scathing of Halsey's critics condemn her as a traitor and
defector who was conspiring with Edmund Mahon even before she left the
Federation, and who staged the Starship One catastrophe as a convoluted
means of defecting to the Alliance, taking vital Federal intelligence
with her. Halsey originally addressed these theories by emphasising how
incompatible they were with her behaviour, citing her efforts to
establish refugee centres for victims of conflict and her public
condemnation of the Federal-Imperial cold war, but more recently she has
simply laughed them off.
