:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       87b860c8-570a-4c72-9524-93ba61af84a3
:END:
#+title: Caine-Massey
#+filetags: :Federation:Corporation:

* Caine-Massey

#+begin_quote

  "Because an honest day's work never goes out of fashion."

  --- Source
#+end_quote

Caine-Massey stands as an example of the power of rebranding. During the
fiercely competitive era that followed the first migration from Earth,
the company's original incarnation -- Howlett, Caine and Calvert --
rapidly established itself as a profitable mining concern. Through a
combination of nepotism and bribery, HC&C secured a Federal guarantee of
mining rights across several systems, with the caveat that failure to
exploit the resources within a set time frame would result in
forfeiture.

In order to set up their mining operations as quickly as possible, HC&C
cut corners on safety, skimped on equipment quality and made exorbitant
promises to potential employees -- promises that were later defaulted
on. Workplace accidents, which were frequent, were hushed up. By the
time these problems came to light, HC&C was a household name, and the
fallout was severe. Token attempts at recompense were made, but the
company's public image was badly tarnished.

A merger with struggling but respected logistics firm Massey Haulage
gave HC&C an opportunity to reinvent itself as 'the local mining
company'. The rebranded corporation, Caine-Massey, presented itself as a
salt-of-the-earth, blue-collar operation whose hard-working employees
were treated with dignity. In an uncertain universe, so the
advertisements ran, Caine-Massey would always be there for you.

The campaign was a huge success. Today, Caine-Massey is now widely
perceived as an old-fashioned company that both understands and sticks
up for the working man and woman. But despite this wholesome image, and
although safety standards have improved, the company is as acquisitive
and concerned with expansion as ever.
