:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       d9459015-dae3-4233-9eb7-a2fb11344097
:END:
#+title: Brewer Corporation
#+filetags: :Corporation:

* Brewer Corporation

#+begin_quote

  "Starports safer than the surface."

  --- Source
#+end_quote

Best known for the iconic Coriolis, the Brewer Corporation has been
synonymous with starports since 2752.

The first Coriolis, designed by Timothy Brewer to elevate the standard
of offworld living, took nearly four years and one billion credits to
complete. Though crude and angular to look at, it was relatively simple
to assemble in space, with heavy components that could be manufactured
locally from low-grade materials. It boasted several innovative
features: a self-regulating biome, living facilities comparable to those
of planetside outposts, first-rate medical services and an innovative
cylindrical docking system. By 3200 Brewer was the galaxy's primary
starport manufacturer.

After decades of rigorous testing, Brewer debuted its second design, the
Orbis. Envisaged as an advanced, lightweight counterpart to the
Coriolis, the Orbis's construction was less dependent on local metallic
resources. The design retained the docking cylinder while featuring
additional 'full gravity' areas.

While the Orbis proved popular in wealthier systems, questions were
raised over the starport's price. Brewer was unmoved, however, asserting
that the company's high safety standards and extensive testing process
made their starports well worth the cost. This did not stop several
competitors emerging in the wake of the Orbis's release, claiming they
could build Brewer-quality stations at a fraction of the cost.

The Merritt Group was one such challenger, an industry newcomer with a
background in planetary infrastructure. Launching the Nostrum, an
industrial station sold as a low-cost alternative to the Orbis,
president Caleb Ferrin bragged about the starport's technical
specifications, claiming it would eliminate the need for
exorbitantly-priced installations.

Ferrin's assertions were definitively answered in 3255, when a
catastrophic structural failure in the main ring of a Nostrum starport
in the Tau Ceti system killed over 100,000 people. Investigating the
tragedy, industry officials attributed the incidents to "a lack of
adequate safety planning" and repeated failures to correct a fatigue
fracture.

Following a very public enquiry in which huge amounts of footage of the
disaster was made available to the public, outrage over Merritt's
negligence bolstered Brewer's reputation. Brewer called the incident a
"tragic loss of life that could have been avoided with a better regard
for safety". The Merritt Group closed its starport division in 3257,
leaving Brewer as the sole name in large orbital infrastructure. Its
prowess has not since been challenged.

