:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       2fb00d7f-7234-45fa-8e3c-af685aa8f0d8
:END:
#+title: Universal Cartographics
#+filetags: :Empire:Corporation:

* Universal Cartographics

#+begin_quote

  "Because it's there."

  --- Source
#+end_quote

Before the frame shift drive was developed, the exploration of space
lacked a single coordinating agency. Governments and corporations had
in-house exploration programmes, but these were driven by the desire for
fresh, exploitable territory rather than any humanitarian motive. It was
not unknown for these programmes to enlist the help of freelance
explorers, but as a class these were seen as erratic and unreliable.

The reputation of the freelance explorer was not helped by a rash of
bogus-data scandals, in which a pilot would present -- and be paid for
-- impressive scan data from hitherto unexplored systems that was later
discovered to be counterfeit. The remoteness of the systems meant that
the deception was not discovered until much later.

Much like the sea captains of old Earth, whose rutters were full of
closely guarded secrets, the owners of authentic navigation data were
reluctant to share it. Theft of such data was a particularly prevalent
concern in the late 2900s, when mistrust between the Empire and the
Federation was at its most intense. Officials on both sides would
occassionally propose a shared databank as a means of bridging the
divide, but mutual suspicion killed the idea before it could be
implemented.

The creation of the frame shift drive greatly increased the jump
capability of even small ships, empowering individuals to become bona
fide space explorers without the need for corporate or governmental
sponsorship. The stage was set for a corporation to manage, coordinate
and distribute the incoming flood of navigation data. Universal
Cartographics filled that niche, arising from the merger of Unified
Infotech and Devaine-Bright Interstellar.

Cynthia Sideris, former head of Unified Infotech, chose the name
Universal Cartographics to reflect the company's policy of making its
data accessible to anyone who was willing to pay for it. Sophisticated
security protocols, developed at Unified Infotech, ensured that all data
sold to Universal Cartographics was sourced through legitimate scanning.

The combination of reliability and accessibility made Universal
Cartographics an instant success. The company's ethos, which prized
discovery for its own sake and championed the advancement of human
knowledge, resonated with many independent explorers, and continues to
do so to this day.

