:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       e9439fe0-8637-4330-b5fd-b4f1643cf472
:END:
#+title: Bank of Zaonce
#+filetags: :Corporation:
* Bank of Zaonce

#+begin_quote

  "Founded on trust."

  --- Source
#+end_quote

Established by the Sevitz family in 2682, the Bank of Zaonce is
currently the largest commercial bank in human space. Headquartered on
Industry in the Zaonce system, the bank provides key financial services
from individual accounts to vast corporate and government budgets.

Though generally perceived as fair, the bank's market dominance makes it
a frequent target of criticism which regularly cites a lack of
transparency and the long-standing policy of neutrality on its clients.
Bank representatives assert the organization is entirely ethical, but
critics cite instances of dubious conduct as evidence to the contrary.
Many governments or corporate regimes over the centuries that were later
deemed corrupt or malign have been revealed as Bank of Zaonce members.

In May 2905, bank vice president Silas Hall was implicated in a fraud
ring that siphoned 115 billion credits from the inhabitants of the
Tionisla system over a two-year period. Once the scandal became public
knowlege, industry regulators called for Hall's arrest and a thorough
investigation of bank operations.

The investigation commenced in June 2905, but despite a thorough
examination of transaction histories, there was no trace of Sila Hall as
a Bank of Zaonce employee. When regulators searched for information on
the man himself or any family, it seemed Hall's entire existence -- from
birth certificate to biometric records -- was fictitious.

Inexpicably, accounts belonging to the affected account holders appeared
normal, with no evidence of the illicit withdrawals that prompted the
investigation. When asked for an explanation, the bank's executive board
stated "Our organization has a zero-tolerance policy towards the misuse
of its resources."

Lack of evidence forced regulators to terminate their investigation, but
rumours circulated of an executive-level cabal with the power to make
troublesome employees disappear. Supporters claimed the Hall incident
was a failed smear campaign against the bank.

In the centuries since, the bank has rarely made the news. When it
does-such as during the 3305 Kincaid scandal in which funds were routed
by a bank director to a shadow election campaign-swift action ensures
minimal threat to the bank and its clients.

