:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       3e9f43fb-038f-46a6-be53-3c9af1bad474
:END:
#+title: Supratech
#+filetags: :Corporation:

* Supratech

#+begin_quote

  "Innovation in everything."

  --- Source
#+end_quote

Despite its comparative youth, Supratech is one of the galaxy's
preeminent technology companies, its rapid ascent having earned it both
the admiration and envy of its competitors. Much of this success has
been attributed to CEO Scorpio DeVorrow, who spent the company's first
year poaching engineers from competitors, pouring billions into
development and plastering advertisements across independent space.

Upon release of the Revo---a sleek wearable computing
device---Supratech's sales saw a significant spike, cementing it as a
serious contender on the tech scene. The company soon faced challenges,
however, including stiff competition from rival company Herculean
Machines and the loss of its main manufacturing facility.

Although DeVorrow insisted the facility's destruction would not
compromise production, dozens of prototypes of the company's next
product were lost. This device, the Torc, was envisaged by DeVorrow as
the product that would launch Supratech into the ranks of the truly
elite corporations.

Ultimately production targets were met, but the Torc debuted to lukewarm
reviews at the 3304 Rackham Ultratech Expo. While sympathetic to the
events surrounding the Torc's release, critics cited technical errors
exacerbated by 'rushed development' as the reason for the device's
subpar performance.

The Torc's mediocre sales pushed Supratech into the red, as industry
analysts started forecasting bankruptcy. Critics cited the corporation's
fall from grace as a cautionary tale against the hubris of 'next big
thing' tech, while fans of the brand held their breath as they waited
for DeVorrow's next move.

Relief came in 3305, when billionaire Lexi October injected enough
capital to revive the ailing company. Famous for reversing the fate of
failing start-ups, October had already rescued several corporations that
had gone on to enjoy significant success. Her interest in Supratech
heartened fellow investors, allowing the corporation not only to remain
in business, but to diversify into other areas of tech.

