:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       b9fe58a3-dfb7-480c-afd6-92c3be841be7
:END:
#+title: Felicia Winters
#+filetags: :Federation:Alliance:Thargoid:Codex:KnowledgeBase:Individual:

* Felicia Winters

#+begin_quote

  "Politics has always been a breeding ground for lies, but one lie
  outshines all the others, and today we heard it once again. It is the
  insinuation that to seek a diplomatic solution is weak. That a
  preference for discussion over conflict means we're afraid to
  fight!"

  "We are accustomed to this, of course. We've heard the president's
  supporters prevert our words again and again. When we face up to the
  Federation's previous wrongs, they mock us for our so-called liberal
  guilt. When we celebrate a detente between the superpowers that will
  help us oppose the Thargoid menace, they imply we are traitors."

  "But it is they who are afraid, and with good reason. Because the
  people of the Federation have had enough. They will no longer be
  manipulated into reckless conflicts that serve only to fatten the
  wallets of arms dealers and the privileged. They will no longer
  pretend that Hudson's tub thumping and sabre rattling is anything more
  than vacuous propaganda. From star to star, colony to complex,
  satellite to station, we hear the same heartfelt cry: let the mistakes
  of the past remain in the past, and let the Federation embrace only
  the best of itself. Let us return to the core values of hard work,
  honest trade, support for the vulnerable and mutual respect."

  "The people are ready for us -- let us be ready for them."

  --- Felicia Winters, Liberal Party annual address, 3303
#+end_quote

Felicia Winters is the head of the Liberal Party of the Federation, and
as such serves as ex officio Shadow President, opposite President
Zachary Hudson of the Republican Party.

Winters was born and raised on Taylor Colony, one of the oldest human
colonies, and worked for the Sirius Corporation before going into
politics full time at the age of 44.

Her current role was thrust upon her unexpectedly. Prior to 3301,
Winters was Secretary of State to then president Jasmina Halsey. When
both Halsey and Vice-President Ethan Naylor went missing aboard Starship
One, Winters became acting President. The assumption of this
responsibility left her visibly shaken, and despite her popularity in
Congress, it was widely felt that she was not up to the job.

The Liberal Party was in a state of crisis at the time following the
Lugh conflict. A group of forces had sought to make the Lugh system
independent from Federal control, prompting a declaration of war from
the Federation. Many of the party's supporters were shocked by President
Halsey's decision to open fire on refugee ships during the conflict.
According to reports, Winters had questioned the action, arguing
passionately with her friend Halsey behind closed doors while
maintaining a front of public solidarity. Consequently, she found
herself responsible for a party whose voter base had largely deserted
it, and whose values had slipped out of alignment with her own.

Shortly after Halsey's disappearance, Zachary Hudson called for an
emergency vote of no confidence that he resoundingly won, resulting in
his appointment to the role of president. Given the massive support for
Hudson and the disarray among the Liberals, Winters was expected to
resign and let the Liberal Party rebuild itself from the ground up.
Instead, she threw herself into her work, leading efforts to persuade
various systems not to defect to the Alliance, and distributing aid
packages to planets in need. Her energetic and proactive approach led to
fresh support for both her and her party, and she currently rival Hudson
in the popularity stakes.

