:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       4dfc1d85-8d12-4503-a4ed-84da898a03ba
:END:
#+title: Mastopolos Mining
#+filetags: :Federation:Empire:Alliance:Corporation:

* Mastopolos Mining

#+begin_quote

  "Three hundreds years of reliability."

  --- Source
#+end_quote

In 2951, an Imperial Senator named Giya Mastopolos helped an Imperial
group wrest control of a key set of mining rights from a Federally
backed partnership. Mastopolos later took direct control of the mining
operations, and under his and his daughter Niya's guidance, the company
rapidly expanded. The [[id:ef9a5433-c2f0-4b2e-8223-dcc9fc30db87][Mastopolos family]] was already held in great esteem
for its patronage of the arts and loyalty to the Empire, and many
Imperials were more than happy to do business with them. Accordingly, it
was within the Empire that Mastopolos gained the most ground, though the
company also established operations in several independent systems.

Much like the Empire itself, Mastopolos has been under the control of a
single dynasty for centuries. Rather than adopt conventional marketing
strategy, it has opted to focus its corporate spotlight on the
individuals in charge, thus capitalising on the Imperial cultural regard
for people of taste and status. The Mastopolos family are trained from
birth to play the part of charismatic aristocrats to the full, acting as
ambassadors not only for the company but for the Empire. In particular,
they seek to demonstrate the viability and humanity of the Imperial way
of life as a direct ideological challenge to the Federation.

The company's current head, Gabriella Mastopolos, has gone out of her
way to ensure that any slaves working for the company are exceptionally
well treated. She also earned plaudits for a prisoner-reform programme
that offered Imperial prisoners at Jennings Hollow the chance to become
corporate slaves, and to earn a generous performance-related bonus. But
despite the popularity of this gambit, Federal and Alliance citizens
were quick to point out that a slave is still a slave, regardless of the
generosity of the owner.

