:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       ce0a88dc-8f0f-4924-ab4b-49b1cc1b7104
:END:
#+title: Galactic News: Generation Ships
#+filetags: :2097:3302:galnet:

* Galactic News: Generation Ships

/19 Aug 3302/

Continuing our popular series on significant episodes from human
history, noted historian [[id:e13ec234-b603-4a29-870d-2b87410195ea][Sima Kalhana]] discusses [[id:951f3d20-c3aa-41cc-ba58-cc7d3a5a1d07][generation ships]].

"Before the development of faster-than-light travel, [[id:d1f19609-fdb7-4991-bcb2-e93435f013d0][colonising]]
distant star systems was a profoundly difficult proposition. For the
people of the 21st Century, the answer was the generation ship. These
vast interstellar arks, equipped with everything needed to sustain
human life, were crewed by multiple successive generations â€“ pioneers
who were born, lived and died aboard a starship."

"The first generation ship was launched in 2097, and in the centuries
that followed, many more set off into the vastness of space. Most of
these ambitious expeditions were funded by large corporations, and the
penalties for interfering with them were severe, given the enormous
cost of mobilising them."

"At the time of writing, there are believed to be somewhere in the
region of 70,000 generation ships coursing through the galaxy. The
approximate location of most of these ships has been calculated, but
not all are accounted for. Many of the corporations that funded the
original generation ships have now been dissolved or assimilated by
other organisations, so it is difficult to determine exactly who is
responsible for some of these vessels."

"It has been theorised that some of the original generation ships may
soon reach their destinations, but since not all of those destinations
are known, it is entirely possible that they could have been colonised
while the generation ships were in transit. We can only hope the
powers-that-be have a contingency strategy for such a scenario."
