:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       f0af7a1a-9bd0-4974-92d7-1d12e5d0a0b5
:END:
#+title: Kinematic Armaments
#+filetags: :Corporation:

* Kinematic Armaments

#+begin_quote

  "Conquer all."

  --- Source
#+end_quote

Defence industry veteran Kinematic Armaments is the galaxy's largest
producer of ballistic weaponry. Established in 3240 by the Dunst family,
Kinematic long ago outgrew its home in the Tau-1 Eridani system, and
today has fabrication plants in dozens of systems.

While Kinematic's efficiency is lauded, the company's business model is
frequently criticised as unethical. To maximize output and minimize
production costs, Kinematic operates 'pop up' factories in impoverished
systems, which are decried by humanitarian organizations as little more
than sweatshops.

Kinematic's arrival in these systems frequently portends a monopoly of
the local economy. First, the corporation purchases vast tracts of real
estate to accommodate development. Then, once a production base has been
established, the bulk of the local workforce is lured into employment
with above-average wages, forcing surrounding companies to shutter.

Understandably, this practice is the source of considerable controversy.
Proponents assert that it revitalizes stagnant systems, while detractors
condemn Kinematic's tendency to close facilities without warning as 'the
unscrupulous conduct of a company consumed by greed'.

When CEO Catalina Dunst was challenged for closing Kinematic's third
factory in two months, she made the following statement: "Kinematic
stands for strength. If a system's economy crumbles after our departure,
it means it wasn't strong enough to support us long term. The weapons we
create arm the security forces that protect you. Remember that."

