:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       4889d46d-ac30-4695-9f3d-f4cb6f925c4a
:END:
#+title: Wreaken Corporation
#+filetags: :Alliance:Corporation:

* Wreaken

#+begin_quote

  "An industry built to last."

  --- Source
#+end_quote

Wreaken Construction and Mining is one of the oldest interstellar
corporations. It was founded over a thousand years ago, but still bears
the name of its founder, Tobias Wreaken, who was a coal miner on Earth
in the days prior to full automation. Raised on stories of horrific
mining disasters, Wreaken ran his extraction business with safety and
prudence as top priorities. The corporate motto at the time ran: 'Losses
can be recouped and equipment can be repaired. Lives are irreplaceable.'

Generations later, this attitude of diligence over profiteering still
ran strong in the company. It made Wreaken a compelling choice when
corporations were looking to exploit the new opportunities presented by
early deep-space exploration. Extracting resources from asteroids,
airless moons and hazardous planets was an even more dangerous prospect
than coal mining, and Wreaken's expertise did much to calm corporate
nerves. Consequently, the company had a presence on almost all the early
Federally chartered colony missions.

Today, Wreaken specialises in the extraction of tantalum, a vital
component in frame shift drives. The company is firmly established in
Alliance, Federation and independent territories, while its direct rival
Mastopolos Mining dominates in Imperial space. Tensions between the two
corporations have been high since Wreaken accused Mastopolos of covertly
seeding key planets with tiny, promising tantalum deposits, in the
expectation that Wreaken's thoroughgoing approach would prompt a full
survey, thus tying up valuable resources. Mastopolos has not offered an
official response to the assertions, though at a formal dinner in 3303
Elena Mastopolos made a pointed reference to the etymological link
between tantalus and 'tantalise', adding that it was not illegal to
leave gifts on a neighbour's doorstep.

