:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       a7056ff8-e67d-4ca9-baf1-7e5df3efa677
:END:
#+title: Rockforth Corporation
#+filetags: :Corporation:

* The Rockforth Corporation

#+begin_quote

  "Living Naturally."

  --- Source
#+end_quote

The Rockforth Corporation was founded in 2673 by the Rockforth Family on
Thompson's World, an unusually beautiful planet similar in almost all
respects to Earth. Thompson's World began as a Federal colony, but by
2748 Rockforth controlled so much of the planet that it was able to
claim outright ownership and secede from the Federation.

In its early years, the Rockforth Corporation earned significant revenue
from tourism and 'genuine ground-grown food', the former facilitated by
the rise of affordable interstellar travel. Today, it is a powerful
interstellar corporation specialising in agriculture and tourism, with
hundreds of corporate farms throughout Federal space. It also has a
reputation for being acquisitive, having bought many of its client
companies, beginning with a friendly takeover of the law firm Smith and
Smith, now known as Rockforth Law. In 2730, Rockforth Law established
the Rockforth Legal Academy on Thompson's World, now considered one of
the best places in the galaxy to study Federal law.

Rockforth has always been eager to work with governing powers, both
Federal and independent, and has occasionally loaned out its private
fleet to help repel external threats. The company has even sponsored
election campaigns, including that of the infamously corrupt Federal
President Isaac Gellan in 2862. Rather than being tarnished by its
association with Gellan, however, the company's reputation was enhanced,
since it was Rockforth itself that exposed the president's corruption.

