:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       04ba4637-336a-46c7-bab0-3ac12f16b2f9
:END:
#+title: Achilles Corporation
#+filetags: :Corporation:

* The Achilles Corporation

#+begin_quote

  "Optimise, iterate, refine."

  --- Source
#+end_quote

Achilles is the market leader in computer technology, and is
particularly noted for developing the reliable, efficient navigation
computers used by most starships. The fear of a hyperspace misjump
following a computer malfunction -- a nighmare scenario that Achilles
capitalised on in its advertising -- helped to cultivate strong brand
loyalty in the company's early days.

Achilles is also a pioneer in the field of robotics, meaning it has long
been hampered by the interstellar ban on the development of self-aware
artificial intelligence. In the late 3200s, rumours surfaced that the
corporation was attempting to circumvent these restrictions by placing
organically grown brains in robotic bodies. No evidence of any such
activity has come to light, and Achilles board members have not deigned
to dignify the rumours with a response.

There has also been speculation that the company's leaders are
extensively cybernetically enhanced, given their history of
uncompromising takeovers and corporate machinations. Even their open
business operations are characterised by ruthless efficiency, while
their private dealings are rumoured to involve everything from the
blackmail of rival executives to assassination. Achilles' official line
is that these rumours are 'sheer fantasy' and a 'predictable, envious
response to success.'

Nonetheless, the rumours persist, and Achilles' reputation is now so
daunting that smaller corporations will roll over at the first sign of a
takeover bid rather than attempt to negotiate for better terms. Nobody
wants to become the subject of a career-ending rumour.
