:PROPERTIES:
:ID:       aa5d0177-2807-4e3d-b0d0-1a40b3203598
:END:
#+title: Gutamaya
#+filetags: :Empire:Federation:Corporation:

* Gutamaya

#+begin_quote

  "Effortless elegance."

  --- Source
#+end_quote

Ship manufacturer Gutamaya enjoys a supply agreement with the Empire
similar to that between Core Dynamics and the Federation. Gutamaya is a
far younger company, however, and was in fact created by the Empire. The
company's ships are considered to embody Imperial opulence, and are
instantly recognisable for their sleek contours and distinctive
silhouettes.

'Imperial Gutamaya' was chartered by Emperor Gaylen Trasken Duval in
3000 as part of a formal celebration of the millennium, in line with the
Emperor's vision of an Imperial renaissance in art, design and
architecture. The company's remit, overseen by shipwrights
Jordan-Blakestow and sculptor Amita Gutamaya, was to produce a line of
ships that would combine functional excellence with a distinct visual
style. These would be offered for a limited period to select members of
the Imperial noble houses as a mark of the Emperor's favour.

Amita Gutamaya's involvement was immediately apparent, her reputation
having been established through well-regarded public artworks
incorporating graceful, contoured forms. This helped to drive public
demand for the ships, which became sought-after status symbols. Demand
was so high that owners were forced to hire squadrons of mercenary
escorts to prevent hijack. The Emperor promptly ordered Imperial
Gutamaya to go into full-time production, and to make part of its range
available for general purchase.

From its inception, Gutamaya has employed a coterie of accomplished
Imperial artisans to ensure that their ships continue to reflect Amita
Gutamaya's aesthetic principles. When, in 3006, Amita Gutamaya died in
unexplained circumstances, she was interred in the Gutamaya family crypt
on Achenar 6b.

